Action Mailer Guide (#8)
bhumi1102/rails: guides/source/action_mailer_basics.md

> Action Mailer Basics

Author: All other sections in this guide do use the "-ing" form, as far as consistency. The first section is a step-by-step guide and hence step 1. Generate the Mailer, step 2. Edit the Mailer, etc. feel more appropriate (vs. Generating the Mailer).

====================

> This guide is all about sending emails from your application.

Author: updated

What is Action Mailer?
----------------------

> Action Mailer allows you to send emails from your Rails application. It's one of the two email related components in the Rails framework. Action Mailer, which is for sending email and [Action Mailbox](action_mailbox_basics.html), which deals with receiving emails.

Author: sure! updated.

Action Mailer uses classes called "mailers" and views to create and configure the emails to send. Mailers are classes that inherit from [`ActionMailer::Base`][] and are similar to controllers.

> Here are some similarities between controllers and mailers. Both have:

Author: Updated

```bash
$ bin/rails generate mailer User
create  app/mailers/user_mailer.rb
invoke  erb
create    app/views/user_mailer
invoke  test_unit
create    test/mailers/user_mailer_test.rb
create    test/mailers/previews/user_mailer_preview.rb
```

Like the `UserMailer` below, all Mailer classes inherit from `ApplicationMailer`:

```ruby
# app/mailers/user_mailer.rb
class UserMailer < ApplicationMailer
end
```

The `ApplicationMailer` class inherits from `ActionMailer::Base`, and can be used to define attributes common to all Mailers:

```ruby
# app/mailers/application_mailer.rb
class ApplicationMailer < ActionMailer::Base
  default from: "from@example.com"
  layout 'mailer'
end
```

If you don't want to use a generator, you can manually add a file to the `app/mailers` directory. Make sure that your class inherits from `ApplicationMailer`:

```ruby
# app/mailers/custom_mailer.rb
class CustomMailer < ApplicationMailer
end
```

### Edit the Mailer

Mailers have methods called "actions" and they use views to structure their
content, analogous to controllers. While a controller generates HTML content to
send back to the client, a Mailer creates a message to be delivered via email.

> The file `app/mailers/user_mailer.rb` is initially empty. Let's add a method called `welcome_email`, that will send an email to the user's

Author: Updated

[`message`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionMailer/MessageDelivery.html#method-i-message
[`with`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionMailer/Parameterized/ClassMethods.html#method-i-with

Attachments and Multipart Emails
--------------------------------

### Adding Attachments

Action Mailer makes it very easy to add attachments with the [attachments method](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionMailer/Base.html#method-i-attachments).

Pass the file name and content to Action Mailer and the [Mail
gem](https://github.com/mikel/mail) will automatically guess the `mime_type`,

> set the `encoding`, and create the attachment.

Author: Oxford comma not needed when the "list" contains only 2 items.

```ruby
attachments['filename.jpg'] = File.read('/path/to/filename.jpg')
```

When the `mail` method is triggered, it will send a multipart email with an
attachment, properly nested with the top level being `multipart/mixed` and the
first part being a `multipart/alternative` containing the plain text and HTML
email messages.

NOTE: Mail gem will automatically Base64 encode an attachment. If you want
something different, you encode your content and pass in the encoded content as
well as the encoding in a `Hash` to the `attachments` method.

The other way to send attachments is to specify the file name, headers, and
content and Action Mailer and Mail will use the settings you pass in.

```ruby
encoded_content = SpecialEncode(File.read('/path/to/filename.jpg'))
attachments['filename.jpg'] = {
  mime_type: 'application/gzip',
  encoding: 'SpecialEncoding',
  content: encoded_content
}
```

NOTE: If you specify an encoding, Mail will assume that your content is already
encoded and not try to Base64 encode it.

### Making Inline Attachments

Sometimes, you may want to send an attachment (e.g. image) inline, so it appears within the email body. Action Mailer makes this simple.

> First, tell Mail to turn an attachment into an inline attachment by calling `#inline`:

Author: updated

```ruby
def welcome
  attachments.inline['image.jpg'] = File.read('/path/to/image.jpg')
end
```

Then in the view, you can reference `attachments` as a hash and specify the file
you want to show inline. You can call `url` on the hash and pass result into the
`image_tag` method:

```html+erb
<p>Hello there, this is the image you requested:</p>

<%= image_tag attachments['image.jpg'].url %>
```

Since this is a standard call to `image_tag` you can pass in an options hash
after the attachment URL as well:

```html+erb
<p>Hello there, this is our image</p>

<%= image_tag attachments['image.jpg'].url, alt: 'My Photo', class: 'photos' %>
```

### Multipart Emails

As demonstrated [above](#create-a-mailer-view), Action Mailer will automatically
send multipart emails if you have different templates for the same action. For
example, if you have a `UserMailer` and `welcome_email.text.erb` and
`welcome_email.html.erb` in `app/views/user_mailer`, Action Mailer will
automatically send a multipart email with the HTML and text versions setup as
different parts.

> The Mail gem has helper methods for making a `multipart/alternate` email for

Author: sure

email clients do no web request context, `*_path` helpers have no base URL to
form complete web addresses.

For example, instead of this:

```html+erb
<%= link_to 'welcome', welcome_path %>
```

Use this:

```html+erb
<%= link_to 'welcome', welcome_url %>
```

By using the full URL, your links will work correctly in your emails.

#### Generating URLs with `url_for`

The [`url_for`][] helper generates a full URL by default in templates.

If you haven't configured the `:host` option globally, you'll need to pass it to
`url_for`.

```erb
<%= url_for(host: 'example.com',
            controller: 'welcome',
            action: 'greeting') %>
```

[`url_for`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/RoutingUrlFor.html#method-i-url_for

#### Generating URLs with Named Routes

Similar to other URLs, you need to use the `*_url` variant of named route
helpers in emails as well.

You either configure the `:host` option globally or make sure to pass it to the
URL helper:

```erb
<%= user_url(@user, host: 'example.com') %>
```

### Adding Images in Action Mailer Views

In order to use the `image_tag` helper in emails, you need to specify the

> `:asset_host` parameter. This is again because a mailer instance doesn't have

Reviewer: the 'again because' might not make sense here if people are reading the sections in isolation. 

How about something like 'This is because a mailer instance doesn't have any context about the incoming request (as above).

any context about the incoming request.

As the `:asset_host` usually is consistent across the application you can
configure it globally in `config/application.rb`:

```ruby
config.action_mailer.asset_host = 'http://example.com'
```

NOTE: Because we can't infer the protocol from the request, you'll need to
specify a protocol such as `http://` or `https://` in the `:asset_host` config.

Now you can display an image inside your email.

```html+erb
<%= image_tag 'image.jpg' %>
```

### Caching Mailer View

You can perform fragment caching in mailer views, similar to application views, using the [`cache`][] method.

```html+erb
<% cache do %>
  <%= @company.name %>
<% end %>
```

> And to use this feature, you need to enable it in your application's `config/application.rb` file:

Reviewer 2: In a new Rails app this is now configured in the environment files:
https://github.com/rails/rails/blob/69c86f9606e490b24e8628dc47f34fbec6b321d1/railties/lib/rails/generators/rails/app/templates/config/environments/development.rb.tt#L46
https://github.com/rails/rails/blob/69c86f9606e490b24e8628dc47f34fbec6b321d1/railties/lib/rails/generators/rails/app/templates/config/environments/production.rb.tt#L91
```suggestion
And to use this feature, you need to enable it in your application's `config/environments/*.rb` file:
```

  <body>
    <%= yield %>
  </body>
</html>
```

The above layout is in a file `mailer.html.erb`. The default layout name
is specified in the `ApplicationMailer`, as we saw earlier with the line `layout
"mailer"` in the [Generate Mailer](#generate-the-mailer) section. Similar to
controller layouts, you use `yield` to render the mailer view inside the layout.

To use a different layout for a given mailer, call [`layout`][]:

```ruby
class UserMailer < ApplicationMailer
  layout 'awesome' # use awesome.(html|text).erb as the layout
end
```

To use a specific layout for a given email, you can pass in a `layout: 'layout_name'` option to the render call inside the format block:

```ruby
class UserMailer < ApplicationMailer
  def welcome_email
    mail(to: params[:user].email) do |format|
      format.html { render layout: 'my_layout' }
      format.text
    end
  end
end
```

The above will render the HTML part using the `my_layout.html.erb` file and the text part with the usual `user_mailer.text.erb` file.

[`layout`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionView/Layouts/ClassMethods.html#method-i-layout

Sending Email
-------------

### Sending Email to Multiple Recipients

> It is possible to send an email more than one recipients by setting the `:to`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is possible to send an email to more than one recipient by setting the `:to`
```

> field to a list of emails addresses. The list of emails can be an array or a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
field to a list of email addresses. The list of emails can be an array or a
```

single string with the addresses separated by commas.

For example, to inform all admins of a new registration:

```ruby
class AdminMailer < ApplicationMailer
  default to: -> { Admin.pluck(:email) },
          from: 'notification@example.com'

  def new_registration(user)
    @user = user
    mail(subject: "New User Signup: #{@user.email}")
  end
end
```

The same format can be used to add more multiple carbon copy (cc) and blind

> carbon copy (bcc) recipients, by setting the `:cc` and `:bcc` keys respectively.

Reviewer: Do you think it's worth including this in the example?

### Sending Email with Name

It's possible to show the name, instead of the email address, of the person who
receives the email or sends the email.

To show the name of the person when they receive the email, you can use
[`email_address_with_name`][] method in `to:`:

```ruby
def welcome_email
  @user = params[:user]
  mail(
    to: email_address_with_name(@user.email, @user.name),
    subject: 'Welcome to My Awesome Site'
  )
end
```

The same method in `from:` works to display the name of the sender:

```ruby
class UserMailer < ApplicationMailer
  default from: email_address_with_name('notification@example.com', 'Example Company Notifications')
end
```

> If the name is a blank string, it returns the email address.

Reviewer: sorry - possibly hair-splitting here but is the standard terminology empty string, meaning ""? I feel like blank is if the value is `nil` or "", in which case do we want 'If the name is blank, it returns the email address'?

Author: It's a good point actually. I worded it to "If the name is blank (`nil` or empty string), it returns the email address." That should cover both cases.

[`email_address_with_name`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionMailer/Base.html#method-i-email_address_with_name

### Sending Email with Subject Translation

If you don't pass a subject to the mail method, Action Mailer will try to find it in your translations. See the [Internationalization Guide](i18n.html#translations-for-action-mailer-e-mail-subjects) for more.

> ### Sending Multipart Emails

Reviewer 2: Does this section add much when we have a main section dedicated to multipart emails starting on line 294?

The order of the parts getting inserted is determined by the `:parts_order`
inside of the `ActionMailer::Base.default` method.

### Sending Emails without Template Rendering

There may be cases in which you want to skip the template rendering step and
supply the email body as a string. You can achieve this using the `:body`
option. Remember to set the `:content_type` option, such as setting it to

> `text/html` below: Rails will default to `text/plain` as the content type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`text/html` below. Rails will default to `text/plain` as the content type.
```

end
```

> Mailer callbacks abort further processing if body is set to a non-nil value.`before_deliver` can abort with `throw :abort`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mailer callbacks abort further processing if `body` is set to a non-nil value. `before_deliver` can abort with `throw :abort`.
```

[`before_action`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/AbstractController/Callbacks/ClassMethods.html#method-i-before_action
[`before_deliver`]: https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActionMailer/Callbacks/ClassMethods.html#method-i-before_deliver

Action Mailer Helpers
---------------------

> Action Mailer inherits from `AbstractController`, so you have access to most
> of the same helpers as you do in Action Controller.

Reviewer 2: This is somewhat confusing to me. I'm guessing the helpers in this case are ActionView helpers?
Also, how the helpers are included isn't relevant I guess (it could change as well).
```suggestion
Action Mailer views have access to most
of the same helpers as regular views.
```

Action Mailer Configuration
---------------------------

This section highlights some of the configuration options for Action Mailer. For
a complete list see the [Configuring Rails
Applications](configuring.html#configuring-action-mailer) guide.

You can specify these configuration options in environment files such as

> environment.rb, production.rb, etc.

Reviewer 2: I don't think we recommend adding configuration to config/environment.rb anymore:
```suggestion
production.rb, etc.
```

|`deliver_later_queue_name`|The name of the queue used with the default `delivery_job`. Defaults to the default Active Job queue.|

> |`default_options`|Allows you to set default values for the `mail` method options (`:from`, `:reply_to`, etc.).|

Reviewer 2: We don't show configuration options in other guides I think.
My preference would be deleting this table and just link to the configuration guide, so we don't need to keep two guides in sync.

  read_timeout:    5 }
```

NOTE: Google [blocks
sign-ins](https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/6010255) from apps it deems
less secure. You can change your Gmail settings
[here](https://www.google.com/settings/security/lesssecureapps) to allow the
attempts. If your Gmail account has 2-factor authentication enabled, then you
will need to set an [app password](https://myaccount.google.com/apppasswords)
and use that instead of your regular password.

Previewing and Testing Mailers
------------------------------

You can find detailed instructions on how to test your mailers in the
[testing guide](testing.html#testing-your-mailers).

### Previewing Emails

You can preview rendered email templates visually by visiting a special Action

> Mailer preview URL. In order to set up a preview for `UserMailer` for example,

Reviewer 3: should the for example be there?

```suggestion
Mailer preview URL. To set up a preview for `UserMailer`,
```

config.action_mailer.preview_paths << "#{Rails.root}/lib/mailer_previews"
```

### Rescuing Errors

Rescue blocks inside of a mailer method cannot rescue errors that occur
outside of rendering. For example, record deserialization errors in a
background job, or errors from a third-party mail delivery service.

To rescue errors that occur during any part of the mailing process, use
[rescue_from](https://api.rubyonrails.org/classes/ActiveSupport/Rescuable/ClassMethods.html#method-i-rescue_from):

```ruby
class NotifierMailer < ApplicationMailer
  rescue_from ActiveJob::DeserializationError do
    # ...
  end

  rescue_from "SomeThirdPartyService::ApiError" do
    # ...
  end

  def notify(recipient)
    mail(to: recipient, subject: "Notification")
  end
end
```

Intercepting and Observing Emails
---------------------------------

Action Mailer provides hooks into the Mail observer and interceptor methods. These allow you to register classes that are called during the mail delivery life cycle of every email sent.

### Intercepting Emails

Interceptors allow you to make modifications to emails before they are handed
off to the delivery agents. An interceptor class must implement the

> `::delivering_email(message)` method which will be called before the email is

Reviewer 2: `::` notation for class methods is somewhat obscure I think:
```suggestion
`.delivering_email(message)` method which will be called before the email is
```
